Which pricing model is best suited for a  batch computing workload that requires significant compute power and can be stopped at any time?
Spot instance.

Which AWS services are free?
Amazon EC2 Auto Scaling, CloudFormation, IAM.

With Amazon S3, which of the following are not chargeable items?
Inbound data transfer.

What are the three fundamentals of pricing in AWS?
Compute, storage and outbound data transfer.

Which pricing model is highly flexible with no long-term commitments or upfront payments?
On-demand.

What can you use to assign metadata to AWS resources for cost reporting?
Tags.

Which AWS pricing feature can be used to take advantage of volume pricing discounts across multiple accounts?
Consolidated billing.

Which AWS support plan comes with a Technical Account Manager (TAM)?
Enterprise.

Which of the following is not a payment option for Amazon EC2 reserved instances?
All at the end.

Which tool can an IT manager use to forecast costs over the next 3 months?
AWS Cost Explorer.

Which tool can be used to find compliance information that relates to the AWS Cload platform?
AWS Artifact.

What is AWS' policy regarding penetration testing?
You can perform penetration testing against selected services without approval.

Which service can assist with protectiog against common web-based exploits?
AWS Web Application Firewall (WAF)

Which service is involved with encryption?
AWS Key Management Service (KMS).

In case of account compromise, which of the following actions should you performed?
Open a support case with AWS.

According to the AWS Shared Resposibility model, who is responsible for operating system patching for Amazon EC2 instances?
The customer.

According to the AWS Shared Resposibility model, who is responsible for configuring server-side encryption for Amazon S3?
The customer.

According to the AWS Shared Responsibility model, who is responsible for data center security?
AWS

Which service uses a hardware security module to protect encryption keys in the cloud?
AWS CloudHSM

Which service can be used to find reports on Payment Card Industry (PCI) compliance of the AWS cloud?
AWS Artifact

Who is responsible for parching networking equipment in AWS?
AWS

