Launching an EC2 Instance running Linux

Enter EC2
Clic on Instances
Clic on Launch an instance
Type a instance name (you can put it a tag)
In Application and OS Images (Amazon Machine Image), select an OS (Amazon Linux 2 AMI(HVM) - Kernel 5.10, SSD Volume Type)
Select 64-bit (x86)
Select Instance type (t2.micro)
Key pair (login), clic on Create key pair
Type the name EC2 Tutorial
Select RSA
Select .pem (to Windows 7 or Windows 8 select .ppk)
And clic in Crear Key pair
Network settings
Select Allow SSH traffic from (Anywhre 0.0.0.0/0)
Select Allow HTTP traffic from the internet
Configure storage
Select 1x8 GiB gp2 Root Volume
Clic in Advance
Select Yes in Delete on termination
Advanced details
In the final section User data paste the next info:
From the files of CODE/ec2-fundamentas/ec2-user-data.sh copy the text on it.
This code will be read when the isntance is first started and only once.
Clic on Launching instance
Check in the list of Instances (maybe it be in Instance state Pending)
To Check the Instance on Internet clic in open address in the seccion of Public IPv4 address.
When the practice finish stop the instance.

When start again the instance the public IPv4 will change, but the Private IPv4 won't change.

Security groups
In the section EC2, the area of instances, select a instancess and select the tap Security
Search the Security groups and check the information.
In the area Networking & Security
Clic on Security groups
Select the security group launch-wizard-1
Select the tap Inbound rules
Clic on Edit inbound rules
You can see the begin page of a instance because the second rule (HTTP)
Delete it
Save the rules.
Now refresh the beginig page, this appear with the animation of process.
When a timeout error occure, the most time is because of Security rule.
Create a again the deleted rule.
Clic on the Add rule button
Select HTTP
Select Anywhere-IPv4 0.0.0.0/0
Clic on Save rules button
Refresh the page again
Select the Outbound rules.

HOW TO SSH USING LINUX OR MAC

Got to EC2 Dashboard.
Select the instance
Copy the public IPv4 address
Go to Security tap
Go to Inbound rules
Find the port 22
If the source is 0.0.0.0/0 is ok. If not, clic in the Security group and config it.
In the terminal write:
ssh ec2-user@IPv4 address
ssh ec2-user@3.250.26.200
Go for the EC2Tutorial.pem file.
Write:
ssh -i EC2Tutorial.pem ec2-user@3.250.26.200
if occur a erro, write:
chmod 0400 EC2Tutorial.pem
ssh -i EC2Tutorial.pem ec2-user@3.250.26.200
test with a ping:
ping google.com
To exit of the EC2 wirte: exit

HOW TO SSH USING WINDOWS 7 OR 8

Download PuTTY
Install PuTTY
Go to PuTTY Gen
Load the file EC2Tutorial.pem
Save the private key:
Load the EC2Tutorial.ppk
Close the PuTTY Gen
Go to Putty application
Copy the public IPv4 address
Paste in Putty
Write EC2 Instance
Clic on the second option that appear in the text box of down.
A CMD window will appear
Write: ec2-user
Return to PuTTY
Select the second option and clic on Load.
In the first text box add: ec2-user@
In the left tree select SSH, click on Auth
In the text box select the key authentication EC2Tutorial.ppk
Return to the principal window and clic on open.
It will open a CMD Window.

HOW TO SSH USING WINDOWS 10

Go to Power Shell
Write: ssh -i .\EC2Tutorial.pem ec2-user@3.250.26.200
write: yes
To exit write: exit

In a CMD window is the same process.

SSH TROUBLESHOTING

1.- There's a connection timeout
This is a security group issue. Any timeout (not just for SSH) is relted to security groups or a firewall. Ensure your security group looks like this and correctly assigned to your EC2 instance.

2- There's still a connection timeout issue
If your security group is properly configured as above, and you still have connection timeout issues, then that means a corpotare firewall or a personal firewall is blocking the connection. Please use EC2 Instance Connect as described in the next lecture.

3.- SSH does not work on Windows
- If it says: ssh command not found, that means you have to use Putty.
- Follow again the video. If things don't work, please use EC2 Instance Connect as described in the nest lecture.

4.- There's a connection refused
This means the instace is reachable, but no SSH utility is running on the instance.
- Try to restart the instance.
- If it doesn't work, terminate the instance and create a new one. Make sure you're using Amazin Linux 2.

5.- Permission denied (publickey, gssapi-keyex, gssapi-with-mic)
This means either two things:
- Your are using the wrong security key or not using a security key. Please look at your EC2 instance configuracion to make sure you have assigned the correct key to it.
- You are using the wrong user. Make sure you have started an Amazon Linux 2 EC2 instance, and make sure you're using the user ec2-user. This is something you specify when doing ec2-user@<pulic-ip> (ex: ec2-user@35.180.242.262) in your SSH command or yout Putty configuration.

6.- Nothing is working - aaaahhhhhh
Don't panic. Use EC2 Instance Connect from the next lecture. Make sure you started an Amazon Linux 2 and you will be able to follow along with the tutorial.

7.-I was able to cnnect yesterday, but today I can't
This is probably because you hace stopped your EC2 instance and tehn started it again today. When you do so, the public IP of your EC2 instance will change. Therefore, in your command, or Putty configuration, please make sure to edit and save the new public IP.

EC2 INSTANCE CONNECT

In EC2 Dashboard
Clic in My First Instance
In the top clic Connect
Clic in the boton Connect below
In the new tap appear a Shell

If you want to deny the access from a SSH external (Linux, Windows, AWS Shell) go to EC2/Security Groups/Edit security_group... rules/Edit inbound rules
Delete the rule SSH.
Save the rule.

EC2 INSTANCE ROLES DEMO

Go to EC2 Dashboard.
Select instance 
Clic on Connect
Clic on Connect below
Check aws version: aws --verion
Write: aws iam list-users
It indicate your permisions.
It needs credentials, to put write:
aws configure
Ask you a AWS Access key ID
Secret Access key
Region name
Output format

Recomendation: Never put the Access key ID and Scret Access key in a EC2 instance.

In IAM/Roles create a role
In EC2 Dasboard select the instance.
Clic in the security tap
Check if it has a IAM Role assigned.
Go to teh EC2 Dashboard
Clic in the control Actions
Select Security
Modify IAM role
In the option IAM Role select the create role.
And clic on Save
Back to the tap security
Check if the role is assigned
In the Shell check again: aws iam list-users

To remove the role go to IAM/Roles
Go to the Tap Permissions.
And find the policy
And clic in the x in the right.
