Review question 1

1.- Which of the following is typically used to sign API calls to AWS services?
AWS access key.

The specific credentials include the access key ID and secret access key. If the access key is valid onlu for a short-term session, the credentials also include a session token.

AWS uses the user name and passwoeds for working with the AWS Management Console, not for working with the APIs. Data encryption uses the customer master keys, not API access.

2.- When you make API calls to AWS services, for most services those requests are directed at a specific endpoint that corresponds to which of the following?
AWS edge location. Most AWS API services are regional in scope. The service is running and replicating your data across multiple Availability Zones within an AWS Regin. You choose a reginal API endpoint either from your default configuration or by explicitly setting a location for your API Client.

3.- When you're configuring a local development machine to make AWS API calls, with of the following is the simplest secure method of obtaining an API credential?
Create an IAM user, assign permissions by adding the user to an AIM group with AIM policies attached, and generate an access key for programmatic access.

The AWS SDK relies on access keys, not passwords. The best practice is to use AWS Identity and Access Management (IAM) credentials and not the AWS account credentials. Comparing IAM uders or IAM roles, only IAM users can have long-term security credentials.

4.- You have a large number of employees, and each employee already has a identity in an external directory. How might you manage AWS API credentials for each employee so that they can interact with AWS for short-term sessions?
Define a set of IAM roles, and establish a trust relationship between your directory and AWS. 

Although you can generate IAM users for everyone, this introduces management overhead of a new set of long-term credentials. If you already have an external directory of your organization's users, use IAM roles and identity federation to provide short-term, session-based access to AWS.

5.- You have a team member who needs access to write records to an existing Amazon DynamoDB table within your account. How might you grant write permission to this specific table and only this table?
Write a custom IAM policy that specifies the table as teh resource, and attach that policy to the AIM user for the team member. 

The permissions for DynamoDBFullAccess managed policy grant access to all Amazon DynamoDB tables in yout account. Write a custom policy to scope the access to a specific table. You can update teh permissions of a user independently from the lifecycle of the table. DynamoDB does not have its own concept of users, but it uses the AWS API and relies on IAM.

6.- You created a Movies DynamoDB table in the AWS Management Console, but when you try to list your DynamoDB tables by using the Java SDK, you do not see this table. Why?
Your SDK may be listing your resources from a different AWS Region in which the table does not exist. 

You can view or manage your AWS resources with the console, AWS CLI, or AWS SDK. The core fucntionality of each SDK is powered by a common set of web services on the backend. Most AWS services are isolated by AWS Region.

7.- You make an API request to describe voices offered by Amazon Polly by using the AWS CLI, and you receive the following error message:
Could not connect to the endpoint URL:
https://polly.us-east-1a.amazonaws.com/v1/voices
What went wrong?
You have incorrectly configured the AWS Region for your API call.

If you look closely at teh URL, the AWS Tegin string is incorrectly set as us-east-1a, which is specific to the Availability Zone. An AWS Regin string ends in a number, and teh correct configuration is us-east-1. If the error was related to API credentials, you would receive a more specific error related to credentials, such as AccessDenied.

8.- To what resource does this IAM policy grant access, and for which actions?
{
	"Version":"2012-10-17",
	"Statement": {
		"Effect":"Allow",
		"Action":"s3.ListBucket",
		"Resource":"arn:aws:s3:::example_bucket"
	}
}

The policy grants teh holder teh permission to list the contents of the Amazon S3 bucket called example_bucket. 

This policy allows access to the s3: ListBucket operation on example_bucket as a specific bucket. This does not grant access to operations on the objects within the bucket. IAM is granular. The datein the Version attribute is a specific version of the IAM policy language and not an expiration.

9.- When an IAM user makes an API call, that user's long-term credentials are valid in which context?
Only in the edge location in which their identity resides. 

The long-term credentials are not limited to a single AWS Region. IAM is a grlobal service, and IAM user credentials are valid across different AWS Regin. However, when the API call is made, a signing key is derived from the long-term credentials, asn that signing key is scoped to a region, service, and day.

10.- When you use identity federation to assume a role, where are the credentials you use to make AWS API calls generated?
The AWS Security Token Service (AWS STS) generates teh access key ID, secret access key, and session token.

The AssumeRole method of the AWS Security Token Service (AWS STS) returns the security credentials for the role that include the access key ID, secret access key, and session token. AWS Key Management Service (AWS KMS) is not used for API signing. The identity provider may provide a SAML assertion, but AWS STS generates the AWS API credentials.

11.- You have an on-premises application that needs to sample data from all your Amazon DynamoDB tables. You have defined an IAM user for your application called TableAuditor. How can you give the TableAuditor user read access to new DynamoDB tables as soon they are created in your account?
Attach the AWS managed AIM policy AmazonDynamoDBReadOnlyAccess to the TableAuditor user.

The DynamoDBReadOnlyAccess policy is a built-in policy that applies to teh resource * wildcard, which means that it applies to any and all DynamoDB tables accessible from the account regardless of when those tables were created. Because IAM policies are related to teh IAM user, not the access key, rotating the key does not affect teh policy. IAM policies are also global in scope, so you do not need a custom one per AWS Region. You can add IAM users to IAM groups but not IAM roles. Instead, roles must be assumed for short-term sessions.

12.- The principals who have access to assume an IAM role are defined in which document?
IAM trust policy. 

The IAM trust policy defines the principlas who can request role credentials from the AWS STS. Access policies define what API actions can be performed with the credentials from the role.

13.- A new developer has joined your small team. You would like to help your team member set up a development computer for access to the team account quickly and securely. How do you proceed?
Create an IAM user, add it to an IAM group that has the appropriate permissions, and generate a long-term access key.

You can define an AIM user for your new team member and add the AIM user to an AIM group to inherit the appropriate permissions. The best practice is not to use AWS account root user credentials. Though you can use AWS Directory Service to track users, this answer is incomplete, and the AWS KMS is not related to permissions. Toles can be assumed only for short-term sessions - there are no long-term credentials directly associated with the role.

14.- You have been working with the Amazon Polly service in your application by using the Python SDK for Linux. You are building a second application in C#, and you would like to run that application on a separate Windows Server with .NET. How can you proceed?
Instsll the AWS SDK for .NET on your Windows Server, and leave your existing application unchanged.

The AWS API backend is accessed through web service calls and is operating system-andprogramming language-agnostic. You do not need to do anything special to enable specific programming languages other than downloading the appropiate SDK.

15.- You are a Virginia-based company, and you have been asked to implement a custom application exclusively for customers in Australia. This application has no dependencies on any of your existing applications. What is a method you use to keep the customer latency to this new application low?
Create all resources fro this application in the Asia Pacific (Sydney) Region, and manage them from your current account.

The primary latency concern is for customers accessiong the data, and there are no explicit dependencies on existing infrastructure in the United States. Physically locatingteh application resources closer to these users in Australia reduces teh distance that the information must trabel and therefore decreases teh latency.

Review questions 2

1.- When you launch an Amazon Elastic compute Cloud (Amazon EC2) instance, which of the following is the most specific type of AWS entity in which you can place it?
Availability Zone.
B. You launch Amazon Elastic Compute Cloud (Amazon EC2) instances into specific subnets that are tied to specific Availability Zones. You can look up the Availability Zone in which you have launched an Amazon EC2 instance. While an Availability Zone is part of a region, this answer is not the most specific. You do not get to choose the specific. You do not get to choose the specific data center, and edge locations do not support EC2.

2.- You have saved SSH connection information for an Amazon Elastic Compute Cloud (Amazon EC2) instance taht you launched in a public subnet. You previously stopped the instance the last time you used it. Now that you have statted the instance, you are unable to connect to the instace using the saved information. Which of the following could be the cause?
The public IP of the instance has changed.
B. When you stop an Amazon EC2 instance, its public IP address is released. When you start it again, a new public IP address is assigned. If you requiere a public IP address to be persistently associated with the instance, allocate an Elastic IP address. SSH key pairs and security group rules do not have any built-in expiration, and SSH is enabled as a service by default. It is available even after restarts. Security groups do not expire.

3.- You are working from a new location today. You are unable to initiate a Remote Desktop Protocol (RDP) to your Windows instance, which is located in a public subnet. What could be the cause?
Your new IP address may not match the inbound security group rules.
A. A restricted rule that allows RDP from only certain IP addresse may block your request if you have a new IP address because of your location. Because you are trying to connect to the instance, verify that an appropirate inbound rule is set as opposed to an outbound rule. For many variants of Windows, RDP is the default connection mechanism, and it defaults to enabled even after a reboot.

4.- You have a backend Amazon EC2 instance providing a web service to yur web server instances. Your web servers are in a public subnet. You would like to block inbound requests from the internet to uour backend instance but still allow the instance to make API requests over the public internet. What steps must you take? (Select two).
Launch the instance in a private subnet and rely on a NAT gateway in a public subnet to forward outbound internet request.
Modify the inbound security group rules for the instance to allow only inbound requests from your web servers.
A, D. The NAT gateway allows outbound requests to the external API to succeed while preventing inbound requests from the internet. Configuring the security group to allow only inbound requests to succeed because the default rule for the security group allows outbound requests to the APIs that your web service needs.

5.- You have launched an Amazon Elastic Compute Cloud (Amazon EC2) instance and loaded your application code on it. You have now dicovered that the instance is missing applications on which your code depends. How can you resolve this issue?
Sign in to the instance as the default user, and install any additional dependencies that you need.
C. You are in full control over the software on your instance. The default user that was created when the instance launched has full control over the guest operating system and can isntall the necessary software. Instance profiles are unrelated to the software on the instance.

6.- How can code running on an amazon Elastic Compute Cloud (Amazon EC2) instance automatically dicover its public IP address?
The instance can make an HTTP query to hte amazon EC2 metadata service at 169.254.169.254.
D. You can query the Amazon EC2 metadata service for this infromation. Nerworking within the Amazon Virtual Private Cloud (Amazon VPC) is based on private IP adderesses, so this rules out options A and B. Because the metadata service is available, you are not required to use a third-party service, which eliminates option C.

7.- How can you customize the software of your Amazon Elastic Compute Clud (Amazon EC2) instance beyond what the Amazon Machin Image (AMI) procides?
Provide a user data attribute at launch that contains a script or directives to install additional packages.
A. You can implement user data to execute scripts or directives that install additional packages. Even though you can use Amazon Simple Storage Service (Amazon S3) to stage software installations, there is no special bucket. You have full control of EC2  instances, including the software. AWS KMS is unrelated to software installation.

8.- Youhave a process running on an Amazon Elastic Compute Clud (Amazon EC3) instance that exeeds the 2 GB of RAM allocated to teh instance. This is causing the pocess to run slowly. How can you resolve the issue?
Stop teh instance, change the instance type to one with more RAM, and then start the instance.
A. Amazon EC2 instances are resizable. You can change the RAM available by changing the instance type.

9.- You have launched an Amazon Elastic Compute Cloud (Amazon EC2) Windows instance, nad you would like to connect to it using the Remote Desktop Protocol. The instance is in a public subnet and has a public IP address. How do you find the password to the Administrator account?
Decrypt the password by using the private key from the Amazon EC2 key pair that you used to launch the instance.
A. AWS generates teh default password forn the isntance and encrypts it by using the public key from the Amazon EC2 key pair used to launch the instance. You do not solect a password when you launch an instance. You can decrypt thid with the private key. IAM userd and IAM roles are not for porviding access to the operationg system on the Amazon EC2 instance.

10.- What steps must you take to ensure that an Amazon EC2 instance can receive web requests from customers on the internet? (Select three)
Assign a public IP address to the instance.
Launch the instance in a subnet where the route table routes internet-bound traffic to a NAT gateway.
Set the inbound rules for the security group to allow HTTP and HTTPS traffic.
A, B, E. For an instanceto be directly accessible as a web server, you must assign a public IP address, place teh instance in a public subnet, and ensure that the inbound security group rules allow HTTP/HTTPS. A public subnet is one in which there is a direct route to an internet gateway.

11.- Which of the following are true about Amazon Machine Image (AMI)? (Select two)
AMI can be used to launch one or multiple Amazon EC2 instancees.
AMIs are available for both Windows and Linux instances.
A, D. You can use an AMI as a tmeplate for launching any number of Amazon EC2 instances. AMIs are available for various versiojns of Windows and Linux.

12.- Which of the following are true abour amazon Elastic Compute Cloud (A.azon EC2) instance types? (Select two)
All amazon EC2 instance types can use EBS volumes for persistent storage.
Some amazon EC2 instances may have access to GPUs or other hardware accelerators.
B, D. Option B is true; Amazon Elastic Block Store (Amazon EBS) provides presistent storage for all types of EC2 instances. Option D is true because hardware acceleratores, such as GPU and FGPA, are accessible depending on the type of instance.

13.- Which of the following actions are valid vased on the Amazon Elastic Compute Clud (Amazon EC2) instance lifecycle? (Select two)
Starting a previously stopped instance.
Stopping a running instance.
B, D. Only instances in the running state can be started, stopped, or rebooted.

14.- You have a development Amazon Elastic Compute Cloud (Amazon EC2) instace where you have installed Apache Web Server and MySQL. How do you verify that the web server application can communicate with the database given that they are both running on the same instance?
No extra configuration is required.
D. Both the web server and teh database are running on the same instance, and they can communicate locally on the instance.

15.- What type of route must exist in the associated route table for a subnet to ve a public subnet?
A route to an internet gateway.
C. A public subnet is one in which there is a route that directs internet traffic (0.0.0.0/0) to an internet gateway. None of the other routes provides a direct route to the internet, which is required to be a public subnet.

16.- What type of route must exist in the associated route table for a subnet to be a private subnet that allows outbound internet access?
A route to a NAT gateway or NAT instance.
D. A private subnet that allows outbound internet access must provide an indirect route to the internet. This is privided by a route that directs internet traffic to a NAT gateway or NAT instance.

17.- Which feature of Amazon Virtual Private Cloud (Amazon VPC) enables you to see which network requests are being accepted or rejected in your Amazon VPC?
Amazon VPC Flow Log.
D. Amazon VPC Flow Logs have metadata about each traffic flow within your Amazon VPC and show whether teh connection was accepted or rejected. The other responses do not provide a log of network traffic.

18.- Which AWS services enables you to track the CPY utilization of an Amazon Elasctic Compute Cloud (Amazon EC2) instance?
Amazon CloudWatch.
C. Amazon CloudWatch is the service that tracks metrics, including CPI utilization for an Amazon EC2 instance. The other services are not responsible for tracking metrics.

19.- What happens to the data stored on an Amazon Elastic Block Store (Amazon EBS) volume when you stop an Amazon Elastic Compute Cloud (Amazon EC2) instance?
The data persist in the EBS volume.
B. EBS volumes provide presistent storage for an Amazon EC2 instace. The data is persisted until the volume is deleted and therefore perists on the volume when the instance is stopped.

20.- Which programming language can you use to write the code that runs on an Amazon EC2 instance?
All of the above (C++, Java, Ruby, JavaScript, Python)
F. You can install any software you want on an amazon EC2 instance, including any interpreters required to run your application code.

21.- You have launched an Amazon EC2 instance in a public subnet. The instance has a public IP address, and you have confirmed that the Apache web server is running. However, your internet users are unable to make web requests to the instance. How can you resolve the issue? (Select two)
Modify the security group for the web server to allow inbound traffic port 80 from anywhere.
Modify the security group for the web server to allow inbound traffic on port 443 from anywhere.
B, C. Web requests are typically made on port 80 for HTTP and port 443 for HTTPS. Because security groups are stateful, you must set only the inbound rule. Options A and D are unnecessary because the security group automatically allows the outbound replies to the inbound requests.

22.- Which of the following are the customer's responsibility concerning Amazon EC2 instances? (Select two)
Patching the guest operating system.
Managing the sign-in accounts and credentials on the guest operating system.
B, D. The customer is reponsible for the guest operating system and above. Options C and E fall under AWS responsibility. AWS is responsible for the virtualization layer, underlying host machines, and all the way down toteh physical security of the facilities.

Review question 3

1.- You are adeveloping an application that will run acreoss dozens of instances. It uses some components from a legacy application that requires some configuration files to be copied from a central location and be held on a volume local to each of the instances. You plan to modify your application with aq new component in the future that will hold this configuration in Amazon DynamoDB. However, in the interim, which storage option should you use that will provide the lowest cost and the lowest latency for your application to access the configuration files?
Amazon EC2 instance store.
D. Amazon EC2 instance store is directly attached to the instace, which will give you the lowest latency between the disk and your application. Instance sotre is also provided at no additional cost on isntances types that have it available, so this is the lowest-cost option. Additionally, since the data is being retrieved from somewhere else, it can be copied back to an instance as needed.

2.- Int what ways does Amazon Simple Storage Service (Amazon S3) object storage differ frrom block and file storgae? (Select two)
Objects contain both data and metadata.
Objects are stored in buckets.
D, E. Objects are stored in buckets and contain both data and metadata.

3.- You are restoring an Amazon Elastic Block Store (Amazon EBS) volume from a snapshot. How long will it take before the data is available?
The data will be available immediately.
B. The voume is created inmmediately, but the data is loaded lazily, meaning that the volume can be accessed upon creation, and if the data being requested has not yet been restored, it will be restored upon first request.

4.- What are some of the key characteristics of Amazon Simple Storage Service (Amazon S3)?
All objects have a URL.
Amazon S3 can store unlimited amounts of data.
Amazon S3 uses a Representational State (REST) application program interface (API).
A, B, D.

5.- Amazo0n S3 Glacier is well-suited to data that is which of the following? (Select two)
Infrequently or rarely accessed.
Is available after a three-to five-hour restore period.
A, C. Amazon Simple Storage Service Glacier is optimized for long-term archival storage and is not suited to data that needs immediate access or shortlived data that is erased within 90 days.

6.- You have valuable media files hosted on AWS and want them to be served only to authenticated users of your web application. You are concerned that your content could be stolen and distributed for free. How can you proctec your content?
Generate presigned URLs for content in the web application.
B. Option B is correct because pre-signed URLs allow you to grant time-limited permission to download objects from an Amazon S3 bucket.

7.- Which of the following are features of Amazon Elastic Block Store (Amazon EBS)? (Select two)
Data stored on Amazon EBS is automatically replicated within an Availability Zone.
Data on an Amazon EBS volume is lost when the attached instance is stopped.
A, D. Option A is correct because the data is automatically replicated within an availability zone. Option d is correct becuase Amazon EBS volumes persist when the instance is stopped.

8.- Which option should you choose for Amazon EFS when tens, hundreds, or thousands of Amazon EC2 instances will be accessing the file system concurrently?
Max I/O performance mode.
C. The Max I/O performance mode is optimized for applications where tens, hundreds, of thousands of EC2 instances are accessing  the file system. It scales to higher levels of aggregate throughput and operations per second with a trade-off of slightly higher latencies for file operations.

9.- Which of the following must be performed to host a static website in an Amazon Simple Storage Service (Amazon S3) bucket? (Select three)
Configure the bucket for static hosting, and specify an index and error document.
Create a bucket with the same name as teh website.
Make the objects in the bucket world-readable.
A, B, D. Options A, B, and D are required, and optionally you can also set a prindly CNAME to the bucket URL.

10.- You have a workload that requires 1 TB of durable block storage at 1,500 IOPS during normal use. Every night there is an extract, transform, load (ETL) task that requires 3,000 IOPS for 15 minutes. What is the most appropriate volume type for this workload?
Use a general-purpose SSD volume.
C. A short period of heavy traffic is exactly the use case for the bursting nature of general-purpose SSD volumes-the rest of the day is more than enough time to build up enough IOPS credits to handle the nightly task.

11.- Which statements about Amazon S3 Glacier are true?
Archives take 3-5 hours to restore.
Vaults can be locked.
It can be used as a standalone service and as an Amazon S3 storage class.
C, D, E.

12.- You are developing an application that will be running several hundred Amazon EC2 instances. The application on each instance will be required to reach out through a file system protocol concurrently to a file system holding the files. Which storage; option should you choose?
Amazon EFS.
A. Amazon EFS supports one to thousands of Amazon EC2 instances connecting to a file system concurrently.

13.- You need to take a snapshot of an Amazon Elastic Block Store (Amazon EBS) volume. How long will the volume be unavailable?
The volume will be available immediately.
B. There is no delay in processing when commencing a snapshot.

14.- Amazon Simple Storage Service (S3) bucket policies can restict access to an Amazon S3 bucket and objects by which of the following? (Select Three)
IP address range.
AWS account.
Objects with a specific prefix.
B, C, E. Amazon S3 bucket policies can specify a request IP range, an AWS account, and prefix for objects tahta can be accessed.

15.- Which of the following are not appropriate use cases for Amazon Simple Storage Service (Amazon S3)? (Select two)
Storing a file system mounted to an Amazon Elastic Compute Cloud (Amazon EC2) instance.
Primary storage for a database.
B, D. Option B is incorrect because Amazon S3 cannot be mounted to an Amazon EC2 instance like a file system.

16.- Which features enable you to manage access to Amazon Simple Storage SErvice (Amazon S3) buckets of object? (Select three)
Create a presigned URL for an object.
Use an Amazon S3 Access Control List (ACL) on a bucket of object.
Use an Amazon S3 bucket policy.
B, C, E.

17.- Your application stores critical data in Amazon Simple Storage Service (Amazon S3), which must be proctected against inadvertent or intentional deletion. How can this data be protected? (Select two)
Enable versioning on the bucket.
Enable MFA Delete on the bucket.
C, E.

18.- You have a set of users taht have been granted access to your Amazon S3 bucket. For compliance purposes, you need to keep track of all files accessed in that bucket. To have a record of who accessed your amazon Simple Storage Service (Amazon S3) data and from where, what should you do?
Enable server access logging on the bucket.
C. To track requests for access to your bucket, enable access logging. Each access log record provides details about a single access request, such as the requester, bucket name, request time, request action, response status, and error code (if any). Access log information can be useful in security and access audits. It can also help you learn about your customer base and understand yout Amazon S3 bill.

19.- What are some reasons to enable cross-region replication on an Amazon Simple Storage Service (Amazon S3) bucket) (Select three)
Your compliance requirements dictate that you store data at an even further distance than Availability Zones, which are tens of miles apart.
Minimize latency when your customers are in two geographic regions.
You have compute clusters in two different AWS Regions that analyze the same set of objects
A, B, D.

20.- Your company requires that all data sent to external storage be encrypted before being sent. You will be sending company data to Amazon S3. Which Amazon Simple Storage Service (Amazon S3) encryption solution will meet this requiremente?
Client-side encryption with customer-managed keys.
C. If data must be encrypted before being sent to Amazon S3, client-side encryption must be used.

21.- How is data stored in Amazon Simple Storage Service (Amazon S3) for high durability?
Data is automatically replicated within a region.
B. Data is automatically replicated across at least three Availability Zones within a single region.
