1.- THE INITIATION PHASE
2.- BUSINESS CASE
3.- THE PROJECT'S SCOPE
4.- FEASIBILITY STUDY
5.- PROJECT CHARTER

1.- THE INITIATION PHASE
As we saw in the previous section, the purpose of the initiation phase is to define the objectives

of the project, clarify the scope, the tasks and the responsibilities, but also make feasibility

study of the project if necessary, because the goal of this initial phase is to gather enough information

to facilitate decision making by management sponsors or stakeholders to say, go or no go for the

project.

In other words, we study whether the project is interesting or not.

So the first thing to do is to define the problem you are trying to solve.

What are we trying to do?

As we have seen before, projects are created to solve a problem, improve a process or seize an opportunity.

So we must be clear about the problem to be solved from the start of the project.

Here we are not talking about a solution.

We are talking about the challenge to be overcome.

For example, is there a drop in sales?

Is the e-mail system archaic and needs to be changed?

Are we trying to put in place a new system to manage customer complaints?

We are not talking about the solution yet.

We are just describing the problem we are trying to solve.

For example, if the turnover is declining, you can simply write the annual turnover is declining at

this stage.

We must resist the temptation to talk about a solution.

For example, we must create new products or we must update our products catalog.

These are solutions, not problems to be solved.

So to help you in this phase, you may ask yourself why?

Why do we want to launch new product?

Why do we want to update our products catalog?

This way we discover the real motivation behind these solutions.

Why do we want to launch a new product to acquire new customers?

Why do we want to acquire new customers to increase the turnover?

So do not hesitate to ask these questions.

Why several times to get to the source of the problem?

One method recommends asking yourself why five times in a row in order to get to the root cause.

This is called the five whys technique.

Once clear on the problem to be solved, it's time to set a goal for the product.

This is the end result of our project.

If you don't have a problem to solve.

You can go straight to setting the goal of the project.

For example, if a client come to you to build a house, for instance, you can skip ahead to setting

goals to define a project objective.

We use the acronym Smart.

It's easy to remember.

And very effective.

So as for specific, objective must be clear and precise and for measurable.

We must be able to measure them and know when they are reached.

A ambitious.

The goal must be challenging for the team.

The goal must be achievable.

So a balance must be struck between the ambition of the goal and its achievement.

The team must be able to achieve it.

If you set a goal that is too ambitious, you risk discouraging the team and temporarily defined.

The objective must be limited in the time.

It must have a deadline.

For example, increase the fourth quarter revenue by six percent net or implement a new customer complaint

management system before December 31st.

And then you precise the year.

These objectives are clear.

They are easy to understand.

They are precise and they are limited in time, and it's easy to check whether they have been achieved

or not.

And of course, these criteria need to be adapted to your specific case.

So now it's your turn.

Describe first the challenge or the problem that your product is going to solve.

And also describe the goals or the objectives for your project using the acronym Smart.

So describe first the challenge or the problem if you don't have a problem.

Then describe the goals or the objectives of your project.

2.- BUSINESS CASE
We have just spoken of the challenge solved by the project and the objectives to be achieved before

continuing.

I would like to mention that sometimes the project manager is not yet assigned to the project at this

point, which happens.

The project manager is assigned to the project once the initiation phase is over.

And the goal is obtained to continue the project.

So he will take you taking charge the rest of the project, starting with the planning phase.

So whether it is the project manager or the sponsor, the purpose of the initiation phase is to have

the agreement of the executive committee to start to the project.

No matter how your business is organized, these always a group of people, often managers or directors

who decide which product to invest in. In the rest of the training.

We will say that she's the executive committee that decides the GO or NO GO of the project.

So you should know that each project belongs to a product portfolio because each company, they are

one or more product, they are candidates for development.

This project must be carefully studied because the competitiveness of the company is at stake.

A company can gain or lose its competitiveness depending on the project in which it decides to invest.

This is why this phase is important, to show the importance of the project and what it brings to the

organization.

It is often the project sponsor who manages this initiation phase or startup phase.

He studies the feasibility of the project, checks the availability of resources, and identifies the

benefits for the organization.

He is or she is also responsible for choosing the project manager who will take over.

So the project manager can arrive at any time.

There is no specific rule.

So if the project manager is assigned during these phase, he can help the sponsor to set up the business

case.

But it is not his responsibility to do so.

The responsibility for this task remains with the sponsor.

The business case aims to convince the members of the executive committee to invest in this project

and not another.

Remember, several projects are in competition and it is up to the executive committee to choose the

project or projects that will secure the future of the company.

So the business case must meet several criteria.

First of all, you have to make sure that the objective of the project is in line with the objectives

of the organization.

A company that manufactures athletic shoes will not be interested in a project that aims to develop

protein bars for instance.

Even if the business case can be profitable, it is not necessarily in line with the objectives of the

organizations, which are, for example, to became number one in sales of sports shoes.

We must also ensure that the return of investment is positive.

The business case must generate some profit for the company that justifies the initial investment.

The business case must have a financial benefit for the company.

I will not go further into the details because this part falls under the responsibility of the sponsor.

I want to just to make you aware that the project first competes with other projects before it sees

the light of day.

If the sponsor succeeds in convincing the executive committee that the product is worthwhile in this

case.

Bingo.

We can go to the next step, which is the definition of the scope of the project.

3.- THE PROJECT'S SCOPE
We have just talked about the business case.

It is now time to talk about the scope of the project.

The idea is to define what's in the project and what is outside the project.

It is a high level definition of the the project scope.

We have the opportunity to talk about the scope more in detail in the planning phase, which will be

supported by the project manager.

You have to see the scope as all the specificities of the project.

To give you a simple example, if we take the case of building a house, the architectural firm is responsible

for the plans, foundations, walls, installing electricity, plumbing, et cetera, but is planting

the trees in the garden part of the scope or not?

So these are the questions that we need to ask ourselves.

Let's say in this case, we say it's not in the scope. Is the tarring in front of the entrance to the

house part of the scope or not?

So these are the questions that we need to ask ourselves.

For the vegetable hedge, a tree planting laurels or cypress?The type of tree to be planted must be

specified.

But let's say that the vegetable hedge is indeed part of this Copia.

Sometimes these questions are easy.

Just look at the contract.

But sometimes some questions need clarification.

These are gray areas that need to be clarified.

It is not known whether these things are part of the project or not.

If we take our example of the house, we can have dependencies on other projects, for example, to

finish building the exterior part of the house.

We need to wait for the installation of the swimming pool, which is not part of the scope of this project.

So we have a dependency with the person in charge of the swimming pool.

We also see that in the contract that the owner's wishes to install a video surveillance system.

Even if the system is not part of the scope of our project, we must ensure that electricity is supplied

to the various places where the cameras will be installed and that it is part of our scope.

So we continue like this, trying to think of everything we do our best to identify what is part of

the scope and what is outside the scope, and also identify the dependencies.

Because they can impact our project, even if the project manager is not responsible for the construction

of the swimming pool, nor for the monitoring system, he or she must communicate with the project managers

responsible for these dependencies to ensure that the dates, the dates stick, that the measurements

match, that the location for the sockets is suitable, for example, for the different cameras.

All this information must be explicitly written in the project charter.

This is a document that I will talk about very shortly.

This is the document.

This must be signed before proceeding to the planning phase.

Now that you are clear on the scope of the project, let's talk about the feasibility study.

4.- FEASIBILITY STUDY
If we are not clear on the feasibility of a project, guess what, we have to do a feasibility study.

The purpose of this feasibility study is to confirm or not that the project is feasible from technical

and financial point of view.

We are trying to confirm the business case holds up here.

We do not go into details.

We do a high level study to make sure the project is feasible.

During the planning phase, we will have the opportunity to go into details.

Here, we just want to make sure that everything is OK before moving to the next phase. When doing a feasibility

study.

We want to confirm that the organization can support the project in terms of budget, employees and

management to handle the project.

So we ask ourselves different questions.

Does the organization have the expertise to complete the project with her technicians, engineers and

so on?

Or should we call an outside company to help with the project?

If so, what are the costs?

Is it still profitable with these external expenses?

And let's look at another option.

If we train the employees internally.

Wouldn't this be a better option?

Wouldn't be the option more interesting?

Is the project technically feasible?

Or do we have an idea how to create the requested product?

Have any similar products have been made in the past?

Are there any products on the market that already meet the need you see?

We ask all these questions just to have an idea about the feasibility of the project.

If we take our example of building a house, we can imagine that the customer ask for a driveway with

a colored tarring.

He saw this at his friend's house and he wants to same at his house.

The architectural firm has never done this kind of tarring.

So the project manager contacts companies in his region to ask for the feasibility of this work with

the specificities of the land, and that they mentioned just to have an idea of the costs of outsourcing this taks.

Actually, what she is trying to do is to check that this cost

is not going to blow up the budget.

Let's assume that in this case, this task does not cost more than a normal tarring.

He therefore decided to outsource this part and he adds a dependency with the external company.

The feasibility study can take a few days, but sometimes it can take weeks.

It all depends on the complexity of the project.

The project manager is not alone.

To do this study, he can use his knowledge and his expertise, but he can also call on experts to help

answer these questions.

During my career as a functional analyst, at one point I was doing pretty much just that. I was only

working on feasibility studies to help product managers and project manager determine the feasibility

of their projects.

This feasibility study can also show constraints, whether technical or organizational, that must be

taken into account during the project.

Once these feasibility study is completed, we will be ready to write the document that closes the initiation

phase.

This is the project charter.

5.- PROJECT CHARTER
Before moving on, you need an essential document, which is the project charter.

This document brings together everything that was done during the initiation phase.

It is a high-level document easy to understand, and it must contain the important information of the

project.

This document should be written in such a way that that it can be understood by people who are not technical.

This document contains the name of the project description of the project.

The name of the project sponsor.

The name of the project manager.

The start date of the project or an approximate date?

An end date, if known.

And I open a parenthesis here.

This data depends on your project.

So, of course, you can have the name of the organization.

The name of a program manager if your project is part of a program, etc.

Then the description of the project, the objective of the project, as we have seen before, and the

scope you can detail here, what is in the scope and what is not in the scope and also the dependencies.

So that is clear for everyone.

The project constraints, if there are any, are there any time constraints?

For example, you have to comply with a new law that there is a deadline.

Perhaps you have a budget constraints that you should not exceed or scope.

That is non-negotiable or quality constraints, such as having, for instance, an application available

more than 99, 99 percent of the time.

The risk that are that threaten the project, the assumptions that you made, the stakeholders and the

members of the team.

And the important dates of the project, if there are any, regarding the project team, it is up to

the project manager with the help of the sponsor to determine the project team.

Again, it depends on the organizations.

Sometimes the project manager contacts the director of each department impacted by the project, and

it is the director who gives him a name.

But sometimes it is the project manager who asks for people explicitly.

So it all depends on your organization and how they work.

At this point, the project team is known and you are ready to move on to the planning phase.

We can attach the business case to this document, to the project charter.

So the goal is to have a reference document that can be easily consulted in case of doubt.

This document does not have to be very technical.

It should not exceed a page or two.

So the initiation phase ends with the signing of the project charter.
