1.- WHY IS THE PLANIFICATION PHASE IMPORTANT?
2.- CLARIFICATION OF THE SCOPE
3.- EXCERCISE, DEFINE THE LIST OF TASKS
4.- TASKS PLANIFICATION
5.- GANTT DIAGRAM
6.- PROJECT BUDGET ESTIMATION
7.- RISK ANALYSIS
8.- EXCERCISE, GANTT DIAGRAM, BUDGET AND RISKS

1.- WHY IS THE PLANIFICATION PHASE IMPORTANT?
As we have seen before, the project manager is not necessarily involved in the initiation phase.

However, he joins the project at the planning phase and he's responsible for it.

If the project manager was not involved during the initiation phase, he must familiarize himself with

the various documents that have been produced to fully understand what it is.

It is the responsibility of the project manager to get in the bath quickly before starting the planning.

Moreover, this is one of the difficulties that the project managers encounter so quickly, building

up their skills on a subject when they were not part of the initiation phase.

So it's a challenge, but is precisely this kind of challenge that makes the position of project manager

interesting.

If it was easy, we will bored.

Right?

So the project manager is responsible for the planning.

But what is this phase for?

The purpose of the planning phase is to analyze, evaluate and organize the project.

It allows the project to be divided into several stages.

It also makes it possible to estimate the cost and duration of the various tasks.

This phase is very important for the rest of the project, and there are three essential steps during

the planning phase.

Define a goal.

Evaluate the options and choose and confirm the best options.

These steps must be completed in order, otherwise we may end up with the famous case of the Vasa ship.

I don't know if you know this story in 1628.

The Vasa was to be the flagship of this Swedish kingdom fleet.

The king himself had signed the commission contract.

It was a national issue.

This ship was to help impose Swedish superiority.

It was a big project.

For three years, 400 people worked six days a week to finish the ship.

On the day of its inauguration, the Vasa sank only 15 minutes after being launched.

How come?

It's simple.

The Dutch builder who ran the project used to build this kind of ship.

He had to plan specifications.

Everything was planned.

But in the middle of the project, the king gave the order to increase the dimensions of the ship.

The objective of the project changed.

The scope changed and the initial plans were no longer good.

The builder was under pressure because he had to finish the ship as quickly as possible because the

war had already started.

So he did what he could.

The plans were not precise.

The dimensions had not been recalculated, and there were a lot of approximation with no proper planning.

This is why the ship lasted for 15 minutes before sinking.

This disaster could have been avoided with more serious planning, with documentation, with dates

dimensions, tasks and sub-tasks.

Clear and precise responsibilities.

It is precisely the role of the project manager to ensure that the planning is done properly.

So project managers create a list of tasks to be accomplished to satisfy the needs of the project and

achieve the objectives.

There are things that the project manager knows and that he masters, but they also think that he doesn't

know.

And in this case, he should call in experts to help him during this planning phase.

No one expects a project manager to be an expert in all areas.

Besides, that's not his role.

His expertise lies in project management, and that's already a lot.

Fortunately, the project manager does not work alone.

He doesn't do the planning alone.

He doesn't estimate the cost of different tasks on his own.

He may have an idea to challenge the different estimates.

But is it is not for him to estimate everything.

In fact, this is often a mistake that we see in some organizations.

The project managers estimates everything alone in his corner and validate his plans with the management.

But when the team starts working on the project.

He realize that his estimates are her estimates were not right.

I stress this point to tell you that you should call on the various experts in your organization to

help you in this task, what is certain is that the project manager must be serious and think of all

possible scenarios.

The ultimate goal is to achieve the project's objectives on time and within the allocated budget.

The time you spent planning saves you a lot of errors during the execution.

2.- CLARIFICATION OF THE SCOPE
So now that we are clear on the importance of planning, the question that arises for the project manager

is how to plan the execution of the project.

The first thing is to become familiar with the scope and the information gathered during the initiation

phase.

You remember when we talked about the scope of the project during the initiation phase.

This part was managed by the project sponsor to clear the land and get an idea on the viability of the

project.

The project manager, if he had not been involved during the initiation phase, must be perfectly clear

on the scope.

He must be clear on the objectives.

He can discuss with the sponsor and the client to understand their request and make sure nothing has

been forgotten.

The project manager can also talk to people who are impacted by the project to get as much information

as possible, like the different teams that will work on the project.

Once clear on all this?

The project manager details his findings in a document called the Project Scope Statement.

This document describes in detail the deliverables, constraints and assumptions that have been made.

It serves as a contract between the project manager and the stakeholders.

It can be used as evidence showing that what is in scope and what is not.

In other words.

The product manager is committed to delivering what they put in their product scope statement in case

of doubt later during the project.

We can refer to this document to find out what the project manager has promised to deliver.

The project scope statement contains the following information.

The characteristic of the project, name of the project, name of the project manager.

Name of the sponsor.

The drafting of the product stereoscope statement.

And so.

The objective of the project.

Why the project was created.

The description of the scope.

Description of the scope of the project.

So the description of the expectations of the project.

This part details the expected outputs at the end of the project.

The deliverables of the project.

So the list of all achievements of the project, whether they are products or services.

This list contains everything that will be delivered at the end of the project.

The excluded domains in order to avoid any ambiguity.

This part contains all the things that are excluded from the project, whether in terms of products

or services.

Acceptance criteria for the product or service.

So the list of all the essential criteria for the success of the project.

These are the criteria to be met, to obtain customer or stakeholder satisfaction.

Project constraints, least on technical material or financial constraints of the project, hypothesis

lists of all assumptions made during the planning phase.

There you go.

Now that this document is finished, things are becoming more and more clear.

We know what to deliver, what is excluded, the assumptions and the constraints.

Now the project manager must go into more detail.

The next step is to break down the deliverables into tasks.

This visual representation allows us at a glance to see the whole project and the tasks to be accomplished.

In this example, I have resumed building a new house.

We can see that there are three main deliverables.

There is the construction of the house in the middle, the interior decoration and the exterior decoration.

There aren't really any rules about splitting the project into deliverables.

It's up to you to see, which makes the most sense in your project.

The goal is to group activities into deliverables and then into tasks.

It's up to you to add the necessary level of detail.

For example, here I have divided the interior decoration into two sub deliverables, which is fixed

like the installation of the fireplace.

The installation of a fountain in the entrance.

And then all that is furniture like armchairs, sofas and so on normally.

And the installed fireplace, I can detail the different actions, such as buying the insert, installing

the air inlet and so on in the base of the fireplace and so on.

All the things necessary to make the fireplace.

This is precisely the purpose of the next document in this document, all the tasks to be performed

exhaustively detailed here and used Excel.

But you can use Microsoft Projects, for instance.

Here's the lowest level in terms of detail.

Each task must have an owner.

This person will be responsible for its execution.

In the case of dependency, she or he will be responsible for its Follow-Up.

Imagine that the purchase and delivery of the insert for the fireplace will be carried out by a fireplace

distributor.

So the person who takes charge of this task will be responsible for monitoring the purchase and delivery.

This document must contain all the activities of our project.

It is important to fill it out carefully because it's a very important document for the rest of the

project.

This is the one we will use to monitor the progress of the project during the execution phase.

Now that we are clear on all the tasks to be performed, we need to determine how long each task takes

and in what order they will be performed.

3.- EXCERCISE, DEFINE THE LIST OF TASKS
Now that you are clear on the scope and the deliverables, it is time to list all the tasks of your project.

You can use Excel, Microsoft Project or any online tools.

The goal is to list all the tasks to be performed during your project. This list should be as exhaustive as possible.

You can also group these activities by categories, themes, etc.

This list is important for the rest of your project.

4.- TASKS PLANIFICATION
Now that we are clear on the To-Do list, it is time to estimate their direction.

It is also important to note the sequence, the order in which these tasks will be performed.

They are surely some tasks that cannot be started until other tasks have been completed.

While there are other tasks that can be performed in parallel, this is what we will see together in

this video.

The first thing the project manager should do is to estimate the duration of each task, add little buffer

to absorb the potential delays.

The project manager starts by estimating the time needed for each task in hours, days, weeks, months

and even in years if necessary.

How does he do that?

He calls on experts in each field to help him get an idea, but also based on his own experience.

The goal is to have the most accurate estimate possible.

As a project manager, if something seems inconsistent to you, you should ask questions to clarify

the reasons for the durations that seem exaggerated or on the contrary too short.

I tell you that you have to challenge and ask questions because humans tend to underestimate the time

required to complete a task.

This is something that was confirmed by sociologists Travesky and Kanneman in 1979.

Most people think that everything will go as planned because of cognitive bias called optimism bias.

It's when you think you are less exposed to a negative event than others.

I'm talking about those cognitive biases to warn you against overly optimistic estimates.

You should always change if the figures seem inconsistent and add little buffer to make sure that your

schedule has little margin.

Things never go as planned.

So you have to be prepared and you have two options.

Either you add a little delay after each task for you have a little delay after a group of tasks.

It's up to you to decide which option is best for you and in your particular situation.

The duration for this measure depends on the task and the complexity of your project. A known task

that does not involve uncertainty.

will have a lower buffer than a complex task, which has never been performed by your teams and which

has a lot of uncertainty.

For example, if you have never worked with a consulting firm, you have no idea how good their work is.

In this case, the buffer will be bigger than what you put on a consulting firm with whom you are used

to work.

And you know well, then there is the criticality of the task.

If a task is critical for the project and its delay could endanger the whole project.

The buffer associated with this task will be adjusted to take its criticality into account.

One way to determine the criticality of taks is called the critical path method.

I will tell you more about this later in the training.

And finally, you have to take into account the experience of the people who perform the tasks.

Yes.

The tasks are performed by human, and you have to take that into account.

A senior employee is more predictable than a junior employee.

I have seen in the companies where I worked, a junior developer can get stuck on a task while another

developer can finish it faster.

From experience, the more junior person is, the more the buffer must be adjusted to accommodate to

this degree of uncertainty.

It's not always true, but it's often the case.

5.- GANTT DIAGRAM
So we cannot talk about project management without talking about the Gantt chart. This diagram allows a visual

representation of our entire project.

We see the main achievements with their durations, their start dates and end dates.

On the far left of the diagram, you see the tasks.

The following column shows a number of weeks each task will take to be completed.

You can see that here.

I have chosen to represent the work chart in terms of weeks.

So the durations you see are the number of weeks it takes to complete an activity.

You also see the start date of each week, January 4th, January 11th, 18th and so on.

Let's assume that we agreed with the client for an approximate date around the end of June.

You must be wondering why the activities stopped before.

This is, of course, to absorb any possible delay, as there would be some delays, except in rare

occasions when the project is finished on time.

It can also be seen that some tasks cannot begin until others are completed.

For example, one cannot build the walls.

Until the foundations are finished, which gives us what is called the critical path.

These are all the tasks that I have called here in light gray.

These tasks need to be monitored very closely.

The electrical work in blue cannot begin until the walls are ready, which is why you see these tasks

start in the middle of the diagram. For the installation of the windows.

It's the same thing it is that you see in orange.

The creation of the house, which you see in yellow, is left towards the end so as not to damage the

furniture with the work, the garden and the driveway, which are shown in green, are planned towards

the and also as not to obstruct the access of large machinery during the construction of the house.

And we left two weeks after the end of the critical path, before the delivery to the customer.

The idea here is to represent the tasks that follow one another and the ones that can be performed in

parallel.

You can easily and visually follow the progress of the project.

Here I did it quickly with Excel, but know that you can do the same thing with Microsoft Project.

6.- PROJECT BUDGET ESTIMATION
As we have just seen, the Gantt chart provides a visual representation of the different stages of the

project with the start date and and date of each task. Project managers plans, the execution of the

various tasks, but also plans to project budget.

He must have an estimate of the overall budget, which also estimates by deliverables.

The project manager must discuss with the various members of the project, the various managers, suppliers

and consultant to gather this information.

Sometimes he can coordinate meetings or delegate some estimation task.

But you remain the person responsible for the budget.

He must remain responsible for this estimate and change the numbers he's given if necessary.

He's an example of an Excel sheet for managing the budget for our project.

I completed the task.

We saw the Gantt chart, except this time I used months instead of weeks to break down the budget for

each task.

Sometimes certain tasks are spread over two months.

For example, the construction of the foundation extends from January to February.

And the idea is to have an estimate of the activities for each month to make it easier for you to follow

up later.

Some tasks require an advance.

As you can see here, for interior decoration were an expense is expected from the start of the project.

This is also something to take into account during your budget planning here.

I have shown you high level way the different expenses.

Normally your budget sheet should contain the details of each deliverable to ensure a better estimate

of the different expenses.

7.- RISK ANALYSIS
Before finishing this part on planning, I would like to talk about the management of the risks that

threatened the project.

There's no such thing as zero risk.

Every project carries risks.

Sometimes these risks are known and something must be done to limit or eliminate them.

But sometimes certain risks arise during the project, which is why we need a way to monitor these risks.

And analyze them.

Good risk management can avoid surprises, but can also prevent the entire project from failing, rigorous

study is therefore essential to carry out the risk analysis to carry out the study.

They are three steps, List the risks you take the inventory of all the risks that threaten the project.

Sometimes certain risks were raised during the initiation phase.

Others were communicated by different members of the team.

And we must list all these risks.

Financial, organizational, technical and so on.

Don't neglect anything.

You can also consult with experts in your organization and ask them if they think of any risk that could

threaten the project.

Second, analyze the risks and not all the risks you have identified have the same probability and not

all are equal in terms of impact on the project.

During this step.

Your job is to estimate their severity and likelihood.

And third, define the treatment during this third phase.

The objective is to to determine how can we eliminate these risks or limit their effect sometimes to

eliminate the risk.

We can change and aspect of the project.

Imagine that defaulting in the entrance hall could threaten the delivery of the project because one

has to wait for the installation of defaulting before being able to finish the installation of the whole

door.

We can discuss with the customer to see if the dimensions of the phone thing cannot be changed or simply

change the fountain into a statue for instance. Or any other decorative object that does not have the same risk as

a fountain.

In our case, let's assume that the customer didn't really want funding and it was the salesperson who

convinced him joining stolen.

I'm telling you about this example just to show you that the project is dynamic.

Nothing is set in stone.

We can always discuss, change, rethink new solutions.

The ultimate goal is to complete the project and achieve customer satisfaction.

Here's what it looks like if we take the example of the House, we have identified three risks on a

real site.

They will surely be many more.

Here it is, just to give you an example.

We can see that the first risk concerns the dimensions of the fountain in the hall.

These dimensions may delay the installation of the front door.

The probability is high because we know that these dimensions are too large and the severity is also

high because a delay in the installation of the front door risks delaying the whole project.

You see that we are adding color codes to show that this risk is very likely and has significant impacts

on the project.

Then actions are defined to eliminate these risks.

Here we have two actions.

Either we change dimensions or we offer a decorative statue instead of fountain.

Then there is another risk related to the weather.

The probability is medium, so we put it in orange and its impact in high on the project.

And finally, we have a final risk related to the team of tailors who will be busy with another site

and which ends only three days before the start of their task on our site.

There is a risk of delay, too, because.

It is their task that will be performed last in our project.

It is therefore necessary to closely monitor their site and look for another team of tilers

If, let's say, their work is delayed and they cannot start our project.

Oh, not that way.

We don't leave anything to chance.

We prepare in advance.

Plan A and plan B if in case plan A doesn't work.

8.- EXCERCISE, GANTT DIAGRAM, BUDGET AND RISKS
Your turn now.

We have just seen how to create a Gantt chart to follow the progress of the different activities of the project.

We also talked about the budget sheet and the risk list.

I recommend that you take a few minutes to create your Gantt chart. Choose the tool that suits you best (Excel, Microsoft Project, or other).

Gather the different budget estimates for your project in tabular form.

And finally, list all the risks that threaten your project.

You can ask the various experts in your organization for help with each of these tasks.
